that cool all right it's connecting
across to YouTube life you may have to
actually view this webinar in YouTube
live what's doing that let me get my
cool that's all working there let me get
my YouTube app up so I can view this
thing II to IELTS I believe we're live
it's not showing up for some reason I
just subscribe to my own channel okay
cool it is live I just got the
notification if you haven't subscribed
yet to e to ions do so and make sure you
turn the notifications on so when we do
do a live stream it pops up on your
phone so you can watch it which is cool
alright fantastic that's looking good
let me just get my water bottle out of
the way I also need to have a shave
that's probably adding to the aged look
here okay alright I think we're ready to
go yeah cool let's kick this off hello
everybody my name is J I am one of the
expert IELTS teachers here at e to
language if you haven't checked out that
website go and check it out now but what
we're going to do no no don't check it
out now because firstly we're going to
do some IELTS reading practice the super
skills we're going to look at the flow
chart completion question which you may
get on Tuesday in fact it may come in a
different form we're going to
specifically look at flow charts but you
may get a summary completion a note
completion or a table completion these
are essentially the same so the method I
teach you will apply to all of them but
as I said we'll look at the flow chart
let's look at the method for this task
and just before I forget if you're
watching this on in the zoom webinar and
it looks blurry go across to youtube
live and watch it on youtube live you
can ask questions in zoom but watch it
on youtube live let's look at what you
need to do to maximize your score for
this task the first thing you need to do
if you get this type of question is read
the instructions let's read these it
says questions 33 to 40 usually they're
located toward
the end of the questions it won't come
at the beginning for example it says
complete the flowchart below obviously
you would see the flowchart below choose
no more than three words from the text
so this is absolutely critical no more
than three words so you can choose one
word you can choose two words you can
choose three words but you cannot choose
four or five six etc okay and no numbers
doesn't say that and then you write your
answers in the boxes on the answer sheet
cool bananas we've read the instructions
so what's going to happen is this so
this is an example of a flow chart this
thing here this is this thing you're
looking at so what you have to do is
complete the flow chart using words one
two or three words so you take one two
or three words directly from the text so
for example let's say number 33 you find
the word here sent so you don't need to
transform it you don't need to change it
in any way you'll just write the words
sent here or on your answer sheet I
should say same with newspapers for
example here in 34 so the answers will
come from the text now the answers will
be scattered maybe throughout a single
paragraph or maybe the answers will be
scattered throughout several paragraphs
okay so you need to look at that now
there's a bit of a trick to doing this
one and the trick is this you need to
ask yourself what type of word could
possibly fit in that gap and by type of
word I mean a noun an adjective a verb a
preposition for example or a particular
phrase maybe an adjective now so let's
do a little quiz to start off what I
want you to do is this I want you to
look at this gap here look at this list
this question rather and particularly I
want you to look at this gap I want you
to think what type of work would fit in
here would it be a noun just to remind
you a noun is a thing or things would
you put a verb in here like a verb like
do these are the types of verbs like do
deed likes
see saw eat ate for example or would
this gap need a past participial like a
done eaten spoken broken said become for
example or could you fit this gap with
an adjective let's just do this I want
you to go through and answer 33 to 40
I'm gonna give you one minute decide
what type of word can fit in these gaps
here you have one minute starting now
you
okay that's just one minute if you need
more time you can pause the video and do
this spend some time to think about it
because if you can do this the chances
that you can get the right answer and
test day will improve enormous lean this
is a really a key tip to this question
type and again it applies to all the
task completion question types I'm just
going to go through and tell you what
the answers are here okay so for number
we need a past participle like a done
type of word because it says the final
version of the text remember we're
talking about a process so things are
happening happening steps in a process
the final version of the text is like
let's let's take a word like done like
sent maybe it's it sent it could be the
word sent for example the final version
of text is sent to the printing Center
sent is a Wow actually you know well is
is sent so it's a past participle I
don't want to get stuck on this because
it's complicated if you didn't get any
of these don't blame yourself this is
hard let's look at 34 the pages are
converted into well thing or things it's
got to be a noun right thing of things
what about 35 something are made for use
in the print in the printing presses
again 35 would have to be things plural
because look carefully our things are
made for use in the printing presses
whatever it is
newspapers are made for use printers are
made for use in the printing presses
things nouns about 36 the LG V's are
something by computer 36 has to be a
past participle as well okay are done
are sent are given are broken are
whatever but at least you know the type
of word 37 the LGV remove the something
from the real okay the this has to be a
noun so 37 could be removed the box from
the real move the the stringing from the
real the strings could be a singular or
plural now 38 the real is well 38 could
be I think it's a past participle
because it
we're talking about a process the real
is moved the real is sent the real is
turned off whatever it is it could be an
adjective but it like the real is big
but it's not a part of a process so it's
got to be a past participle the real is
trimmed and prepared by that again we've
got the article so we're going to have a
net singular or plural now and here the
real is taken to that we need a thing or
things here again a singular or plural
now that's hard that's hard
go back think about this if you can't
get this because this will help you on
test day all right let's just do it now
we know what to do we know that we need
to read the instructions we can use up
to 3 words 1 2 or 3 we know that we're
taking a word directly from the text a
word or two words or three words
directly from the text to fit in the gap
we know that they'll be scattered
throughout the paragraph or throughout
paragraphs and we know well hopefully
what type of word can fit that gap
because that will help you enormous Lee
let's do it I'm gonna time you
this test will go for six minutes I want
you to try and do this okay it's the
best practice you can possibly do here
we go let's do the first few
okay for those of you in the zoom
webinar because you're in front of the
YouTube live do you need more time type
in more time if you need more time type
in more time if you need more time all
right let's okay I'm gonna give you a
little bit more time to do that I'll
give you in another minute okay it's a
half way half circle remember you're not
doing them all in fact I think you only
go up to 34 sorry maybe 36
35 I should say okay let's move on to
the next set of questions so here I
think we did 33 34 and 35 let's move on
to the next one here we go
this one you go up to 38
you
I'm going to give you another 1 minute
here
you
all right that should be enough time
let's now move down and do number 39 and
40 here we go
all right I hope that's enough time do
you need more time no I don't think you
do I think you could well I think that's
your internet connection because
everybody else is fine if you if you
can't read this because it's blurry it's
probably your internet connection
because everybody else is fine I'm sorry
about that check on YouTube there's a
little button where you can increase the
resolution up to HD try and increase
that find that button on YouTube this
was hard I agree I think this is a
really hard reading test so we're gonna
go through the answers together I'm
going to tell you why the answers are
the way they are
let's do 33 first now the answer to 33
is located in this section of the second
paragraph the and the question says the
final version of the text is something
to the printing Center so we need a past
participle what is it I hope you saw
that it could be one or two words the
answer you could have just written
transmitted or you could have included
the adverb electronically the answer
could be transmitted or transmitted
electronically okay there you go that's
33 taken directly from the text
let's do 34 the pages are converted into
the answer here well there's a few
answers you could have written
photographic film you could have just
written film or you could have written
negatives or negatives so there are
several possible answers there if you've
got one of those options photographic
negative sorry photographic negatives it
has to be no it doesn't have to be
plural
it could be photographic negative
photographic negatives it could be film
or it could just be negative or
negatives any of those are possible
answers let's do 35 something we need a
thing we need a noun are made for use in
the printing presses remember one two or
three words here the answer to 35 is
well you could have aluminium printing
plates or you could just have printing
plates both of those answers are
possible if you just had plates it would
be wrong if you just had aluminium it
would be wrong or if you just had
printing it would be wrong
you needed aluminium printing plates or
printing plates let's look at 36 here
the LGV x' there's a good work keyword
to search for the LGV x' are something
by computer I'm thinking that this is
going to be a past participle
this was a very hard one if you got
tempted to write punched does that
really make sense the LGV czar punched
by the compact bite a punched by
computer doesn't really make sense in
many ways I think the answer here is
that other past participial they're
programmed the LG beings are programmed
by computer so if you got that one well
done there was just the one single
possible answer there 37 the LG visa
remove the something we need a noun we
need a thing or things from the real
remove what from the real
okay the answer here could be damaged
paper or wrapping I also think it could
be tough wrapping I don't see why it
could also be could be in brackets here
tough tough wrapping as well I think
damaged paper tough wrapping or just
wrapping so there's actually two
possible answers from this paragraph
there
let's do 38 the real is what we need a
past participle I think this one's
pretty straightforward just one answer
the real is Wade let's do 39 the real is
trimmed and prepared by the what we need
a noun
one two or three words the reel is
trimmed and prepared by the paster robot
or paste of robots plural both are
possibly correct if you just had robot
or robots it would be wrong we needed
the sort of adjective here the paste of
robots we needed both parts of the word
there because it's specific finally
question number 40 this is hard work
the reel is taken to the we need a noun
and it's probably going to be a place
it's going to be storage area the reel
is taken to the storage area so let's go
through the answers here
33 transmitted or transmitted
electronically 34 you could have had
photographic film or film or negative or
negatives for possible options there 35
you could have had aluminium printing
plates or you could have had printing
plates 36 programmed 37 damaged paper or
wrapping may be tough wrapping 38
weighed 39 paste of robot or paste of
robots 40 storage area
you needed that adjective there storage
or the noun and functioning as an
adjective and that my friends is what we
call technically cool bananas if you
need help with your IELTS if you want
methodology lessons like this that
explain all the different reading
question types how to write the
different essays from beginning to end
task 1 task 2 doesn't matter how to do
the speaking everything you need to go
look at no go to e to language dot-com
and how did you go out by the way how
many did you get I think it was out of 7
how many did you get out of 7 put it
into the chat so I can have a look here
was it s but
was that it hang on let me count how
many questions there were one two three
four five six seven eight
sorry it was out of eight what did you
get out of eight four out of eight six
out of eight seven out of eight seven
out of eight well done that's great five
out of eight seven five yeah it's tough
this one was really tough it was tough
because the synonyms weren't very clear
right you needed to scan read it you
needed to keep in mind that it was a
process and so I was talking about steps
in the process
so it's transmitted electronically then
it's sent then it's printed so there's a
lot of past participles because we're
using a lot of passive sentences they're
cool if you have any questions pop them
into the chat I'm more than happy to
stick around for a while to answer them
did anybody get eight out of eight no
one that's alright a couple of seven out
of eight wait somebody did shoot the
towel that eight out of eight Jay I
appreciate your feedback on it is it
easy to get seats in IELTS general
writing follow the e to language methods
that's all I can tell you we've done all
the hard work all the methods well
there's someone YouTube the the rest are
all on the platform so check that out
what about the list of headings how to
do them I've done that before so check
that out that's on YouTube as well Jay I
appreciate your feedback I think I've
answered that one I'm actually might
call it quits now I'm kind of exhausted
I've had a big day I hope you don't mind
yes if you do have any questions I'll
give you a website to go to to check out
so if you have any questions whoopsie
I'll put this into full mode go to this
website here go to help dot e to
language comm this is our Help Center go
to this website and you can ask any
questions you have and we'll give you
the answer okay
that's how that one works help eating
language calm if you also have any
questions about our
packages or how our tutorials work or
how the writing feedback works or how we
can boost your score in general feel
free to send us your score reports
through we'll give you an analysis on
those as well guys I'm going to leave it
there thank you very much for coming
hope it was helpful and good luck with
your exam if it's coming up it's coming
up later do you think about preparing
for it because these exams are by no
means easy just a little warning cool
see you guys later